Next, we'll create a new dataset,
join two datasets with JoinVertices,
join two datasets with outerJoinVertices,
and create a new return type for
the joined vertices.
In this hands-on exercise,
we will create a new graph made
up of five airline flights.
The vertices will represent the airports,
and the edges will represent
the departures and the arrivals.
Once the graph has been created
we will add a second dataset
with additional airport information and
practice using GraphX's join methods to
create new graphs by joining the datasets.
We will start a new spark shell session,
so
we will be opening a new terminal window.
Open the new terminal window by
clicking the terminal icon at the top
of the screen.
Start the spark shell.
Import the log for j classes and
suppress the notice and info messages.
Import sparks graphics and rdd classes.
Now we will create the vertices
ourselves from a list.
The list will contain the vertex ID and
the name of the airport.
Now we will create the edges.
The edges will represent a flight
departing from one airport and
arriving at another.
We will set the edge property
to a fake flight number.
Create the flights graph
by joining the vertices and
the edges using graph
flexes graph functions.
Let us explore the graph so far.
Look through each triplet in flights graph
and print the contents of the graph.
We will specify which airport
the flight departs from,
which airport the flight arrives at,
and the flight number.
You'll just put all of
the vertices in the graph.
Now we are willing to create an additional
dataset to store additional information
about each airport.
First, we will create a case class called
airport information with the city and
airport code properties.
Then we are going to create the airport
information vertices from a list
as we did earlier.
We will make sure the vertex ID for
the airport information matches the vertex
ID of the airport defined earlier.
Note, there does not have to be a one
to one relationship between the airport
vertices and
the airport information vertices.
Los Angeles International Airport is
present in the airport vertices, but
it is missing from the airport
information vertices.
The airport information vertices contains
information about airports in London and
Hong Kong.
But we don't have any flights departing or
arriving from those airports.
Let us complete our first join.
A mapping function has to be defined in
order to join vertices with graphics join
vertices method.
We are going to define a map function that
will join the name of the airport from
the airport vertices with the city name
from the airport information vertices.
In order to create a new graph with
the vertices that has the airport name
colon city name.
After the map function in defined,
then we will use the joined vertices
method to create the new graph.
Vertices without a matching value in
the RDD, retain their original value.
Now, print out the vertices
of the new graph.
Notice all of the vertices contain
the airport and city names,
except Los Angeles International Airport,
which retained its original value.
Now we will join the vertices using
GraphX's outerJoinVertices method.
OuterJoinVertices is
similar to JoinVertices,
except that the user-defined map
function is applied to all vertices and
it can change the vertex property type.
Here, we are using the OuterJoinVertices
method to create a new graph where
the vertices contain a property
with the name of the airport and
a property makeup of
the airport information class.
Print the vertices once
the new graph is made.
Notice that the type of the second
vertex property is sum.
This is because
Los Angeles International Airport
does not have a corresponding
vertex in airport information.
Therefore GraphX assigned all of
the properties the sum type so
that all of the vertex
property types are the same.
We can use the get or
else method to assign a default
value if one does not exist.
Now, let us rerun
the outer join vertices but
this time use the get, get or
else method to create an airport
information class with NA as the values
for the city and the airport code.
Print the vertices once
the new graph is made.
Now, the type of the second vertex
property is airport information in
Los Angeles International Airport,
airport information class,
has the properties NA and NA.
Finally, in this last exercise, we will
create a new case class called Airport
that contains property for the name,
city, and code of the airport.
First, we will define the new Airport
case class with the name, city, and
code properties.
Then use the outer join vertices
method to join the data sets, and
create the new graph.
Create a mapping so if the airport has an
airport information vertex, the city and
code are taken from the instance
of the airport information class.
Otherwise, only include the airport name.
Finally, print the vertices
of the new graph.
The new graph has only one vertex property
which is an instance of the airport class.
GraphX has lots of methods for
joining graph datasets.
This hands on example only scratched
the surface of GraphX's power.